[Term Entry] Go Math Functions .Modf() (#2866)
Codecademy/docs: content/go/concepts/math-functions/terms/modf/modf.md

---
Title: 'Modf()'
Description: 'Returns the integer and fractional part of a floating-point number.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Math'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Modf()`** function in Go is used to find the integer and fractional part of a floating-point number. This function is part of the `math` package, and the package must be imported to use the function in a Go program.

## Syntax

```pseudo
int, frac := Modf(f)
```

Where:

> - `f`: is the floating-point number for which you want to extract the integer and fractional parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `f`: is the floating-point number to extract the integer and fractional parts from.
```

- `int`: is the integer part of the passed parameter.
- `frac`: is the fractional part of the passed parameter.

Some special return cases:

- If (±)Inf is passed as an argument, then `Modf` returns (±)Inf and `NAN`.
- If the argument passed is `NAN`, then the return will also be `NAN`.

## Example

Below is a basic implementation of the `Modf()` function.

```go
package main

import(
  "fmt"
  "math"
)

func main() {
  var x float64 = 3.3456

  var w, z float64 = math.Modf(x)
  fmt.Print("The value ", x, " is composed of the integer: ", w, " and the fractional part: ", z)
}
```

The output will be:

```shell

> For 3.3456 integer part: 3 fractional part: 0.34560000000000013

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value 3.3456 is composed of the integer: 3 and the fractional part: 0.34560000000000013
```

---
Title: 'Modf()'
Description: 'Returns the integer and fractional part of a floating-point number.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Math'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Modf()`** function in Go is used to find the integer and fractional part of a floating-point number. This function is part of the `math` package, and the package must be imported to use the function in a Go program.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> result := Modf(f float64) (int float64, frac float64)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
result := Modf(f) (int, frac)
```

Reviewer 2: Typically in docs we keep the syntax expression very minimal, and highlight types and other details in the section below that describes any parameters or special cases, etc

```

Where:

- `f`: is the floating-point number for which you want to extract the integer and fractional parts.

> - `float64`: is a type of numer that uses 64 bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: lines 28 and 29 should be edited so that they are presented as returns not as parameters

Author: Hey @caupolicandiaz, does it sound better if I update it to this?
- `int`: is a returned integer part value.
- `frac`: is a returned fractional part value.

- `int`: is the integer part of the passed parameter.
- `frac`: is the fractional part of the passed parameter.

Some special return cases:

- If (±)Inf is passed as an argument, then `Modf` returns (±)Inf and `NAN`.

> - If the argument passed is `NAN`, then Modf returns `NAN` and `NAN`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the argument passed is `NAN`, then the return will also be `NAN`.
```

## Example

> Below is a simple example where we find out the integer and fractional parts of 3.3456.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a basic implementation of the `Modf()` function.
```

```go
package main

import(
  "fmt"
  "math"
)

func main() {
  var x float64 = 3.3456

  var w, z float64 = math.Modf(x)

>   fmt.Print("For ", x, " integer part: ", w, " fractional part: ", z)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fmt.Print("The value ", x, " is composed of the integer: ", w, " and the fractional part: ", z)
```

}
```

The output will be:

```shell

> For 3.3456 integer part: 3 fractional part: 0.34560000000000013

Reviewer 2: update as edited above

```

## Codebyte Example

The following example shows how the `Modf()` function can be used in a Go program:

```codebyte/golang
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "math"
)

func main() {

>     // Contain both integer and fraction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // A value with an integer and fraction
```

    integer, fraction := math.Modf(2.5)
    fmt.Printf("Integer: %f. Fraction: %f\n", integer, fraction)

>     // Contain only integer part

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // An integer
```

    integer, fraction = math.Modf(2)
    fmt.Printf("Integer: %f. Fraction: %f\n", integer, fraction)

>     // Negative floating point number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // A negative floating point number
```

    integer, fraction = math.Modf(-2.5)
    fmt.Printf("Integer: %f. Fraction: %f\n", integer, fraction)

>     // Contains only fraction part

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // A number of a fractional value
```
